README.md, before:

# Custom Lab for TripleO
A simple way to bootstrap a bunch of VMs on a libvirt host. Gives more control
than quickstart in some cases.

## Specs
It is expected to run the following resources:
- 1 undercloud
- 3 controllers
- 2 computes
- 3 ceph-storage

The amount of used memory for that env is about 52G, and about 20 CPU cores.

## Prerequisite
### Working ssh-agent on ansible-host
A working ssh-agent must be runnin on the host launching ansible playbook. It
is needed in order to hot-load the private ssh key for the undercloud access.

In case you're running the playbook for a "middle machine", you can just forward
the agent from your workstation.

## Usage
### Standard deploy:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml
```

It will deploy a containerized undercloud and prepare the baremetal.json file
you will use in order to register nodes in ironic.

### Redeploy the lab
If you issue a ```lab-destroy``` on the builder, you will need to redeploy the
lab:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml --tags lab
```

### I have my undercloud and want to replay only specific tasks on it
Just limit with the tags, and be sure to have the ```inventory``` tag. For
example, in order to just manage the overcloud images:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml -t inventory -t overcloud-images
```

### I want to add a new instance to my current lab
Just add the requested information in the yaml you used for the initial deploy,
then:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml -t domains -t baremetal -t vbmc
```

Domain tag will create the instance disk image and add it to libvirt. The vbmc
tag will add the new to vbmc, and enable it. The baremetal tag will take care of
the different configuration on the undercloud.

One note though: you might want to delete the already-existing node(s) from the
baremetal.json on the undercloud, in order to avoid useless error output from
the import task.

Also, this ansible will NOT run the import task once more, it doesn't ensure
all nodes are present. You will need to run, on your own:
```Bash
source ~/stackrc
openstack overcloud node import --provide baremetal.json
```

### Extend the lab
You can pass variables and environment files using the ```-e``` option, like:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml --skip-tags overcloud-images --tags lab -e @environments/3ctl-1compute.yaml
```
This will start a lab with just 3 controllers and 1 compute.

### Validations
You can run tempest validations against standalone and undercloud deploy. In order to run
just the validations and avoid having to wait to much time, you can run the following command:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml -t inventory -t validations
```

### Metrics
The project now allows to gather metrics about the undercloud instance. In order
to activate requested things on the builder (namely, run a couple of containers),
you need to add the following tag the first time you re-deploy the lab:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml --tags metrics,lab
```

Please note this will install podman on the builder, and start two containers,
one for graphite, the other for grafana.

Graphite has two persistent data directories located in ```/var/lib/containers/storage/mounts/graphite```.

In case you want to clean up data, you can go in ```/var/lib/containers/storage/mounts/graphite/storage/whisper```
and remove the data related to your undercloud.

The cleanup is NOT done when you drop the lab and rebuild it, in order to keep
tracks of older deploy for comparaison purpose.

#### Variables
*vms*
  Hash with the following entries:
  - name (string)
  - cpu (int)
  - memory (int, MB)
  - interfaces (list)
    - network (network name, default 'ctlplane')
  - autostart (bool)
  - swap (string, for example 10G)
  - iotune (list)
    - tune (string, iotune option)
      value (string, iotune option value)
```YAML
vms:
  - name: undercloud
    cpu: 16
    memory: 20000
    disksize: 100
    interfaces:
      - network: default
      - net2
    autostart: yes
  - name: controller-0
    cpu: 8
    memory: 20000
    disksize: 100
    interfaces:
      - net1
      - net2
    autostart: no
```

*centos_mirror*
  Create a CentOS repository mirror (default to no)

*mirror_base_directory*
  Location of the mirrors on your filesystem (default to /srv/mirror)

*manage_mirror_device*
  Toggle management of the dedicated device for the mirror content (default to yes)

*centos_mirror_device*
  Block device name for mirror content.

  Please note it will create a partition and format it as XFS.

*virt_user*
  Username on the builder (will be created)

*basedir*
  Base directory for all the VM images

*undercloud_password*
  Root password on the undercloud VM (debug purpose)

*undercloud_config*
  List of hashes representing ini configuration for undercloud.conf file
```YAML
---
undercloud_config:
  - section: DEFAULT
    option: container_cli
    value: podman
```

*tripleo_repo_version*
  Tripleo-repos package name/version. The default version is `master`. This can be changed this to any OpenStack version, like `stein` or `train`.

*overcloud_images*
  Hash with the following entries:
  - file (string)
  - content (string)

*containerized_undercloud*
  Boolean, default "yes"

*use_heat*
  Whether to add `--use-heat` to undercloud install command (Boolean).
  Defaults "no"

*ci_tools*
  Install CI tools (Boolean)

*deploy_undercloud*
  Boolean

*deploy_overcloud*
  Boolean

*proxy_host*
  Allows to use a proxy on the lab - put IP:PORT as value

*patches*
  List of hashes with the following entries:
  - name (string) - package name
  - refs (string) - patch reference
```YAML
patches:
  - name: 'tripleo-heat-templates'
    refs: '33/600533/8'
```

*synchronize*
  List of hashes with the following entries:
  - name
  - base
  - dest (defaults to /home/stack/tripleo/)
  Synchronize with rsync from your ansible controller to remote
```YAML
synchronize:
  - name: tripleo-heat-templates
    base: /home/user/work
    dest: /home/stack/tripleo/
```

*synchronize_default_dest*
  String. Used if you don't set "dest" in the synchronize hash.
  Default /home/stack/tripleo/

*custom_rpms*
  List of custom remote RPMS to install on your undercloud node

*additional_envs*
  List of additional env you want to pass to either standalone or overcloud deploy

*standalone*
  Deploy "standalone" tripleo (Bool, default no)

*standalone_ceph*
  Deploy ceph in standalone tripleo (Bool, default no)

*standalone_container_cli*
  Deploy standalone using said container CLI (String, default docker)

*deploy_standalone*
  Run the deploy script (Bool, default yes)

*semodules*
  Build modules based on .te files you can provide. List of dicts.
```YAML
semodules:
  - name: foobar
    src: /full/path/foobar.te
```

*overcloud_image_update*
  Whether you want to get a `yum update` on the overcloud-full prior its
  upload into Glance. (Bool, default to yes)

*undercloud_low_memory*
  Creates a hieradata file to configure 1 worker per OpenStack
  service. This hieradata file is consummed by the Undercloud.
  (Bool, default no)

*disable_selinux*
  Allows to disable selinux on the undercloud, setting it to "permissive" while
  still logging what would have been blocked.
  (Bool, default no)

*enable_metrics*
  Allows to set up metrics gathering, using collectd, graphite and grafana.
  (Bool, default no)

*custom_repositories*
  List of custom repositories dicts
```YAML
custom_repositories:
  - name: foo
    uri: https://foo.bar
    gpg: (bool, optional)
    priority: (int, optional)
```

*tripleoclient_pkgname*
  Allows to set a custom name for the python-tripleoclient.
  (Str, default python-tripleoclient)

*unmanage_iface*
  Point to the interface we want to unmanage from NetworkManager

*run_validations*
  Activate tempest runs (bool, default yes)

*modify_container*
  List projects/container to modify on the fly during a standalone deploy.
```YAML
modify_container:
  gerrit-project-name:
    ref: change reference
    container: container-name
```
For instance:
```YAML
modify_container:
  neutron:
    ref: refs/changes/60/661760/7
    container: neutron-server
```

*num_osds*
  The number of OSD disks created per ceph node (int, default 1)

Commit message:

Enable better package build and usage
Introduce the concept of packages being built only for containers, or
only for the host (undercloud).
Please check USAGE and README for more informations.

README.md, after:

# Custom Lab for TripleO
A simple way to bootstrap a bunch of VMs on a libvirt host. Gives more control
than quickstart in some cases.

## Specs
It is expected to run the following resources:
- 1 undercloud
- 3 controllers
- 2 computes
- 3 ceph-storage

The amount of used memory for that env is about 52G, and about 20 CPU cores.

## Prerequisite
### Working ssh-agent on ansible-host
A working ssh-agent must be runnin on the host launching ansible playbook. It
is needed in order to hot-load the private ssh key for the undercloud access.

In case you're running the playbook for a "middle machine", you can just forward
the agent from your workstation.

## Usage
### Standard deploy:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml
```

It will deploy a containerized undercloud and prepare the baremetal.json file
you will use in order to register nodes in ironic.

### Redeploy the lab
If you issue a ```lab-destroy``` on the builder, you will need to redeploy the
lab:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml --tags lab
```

### I have my undercloud and want to replay only specific tasks on it
Just limit with the tags, and be sure to have the ```inventory``` tag. For
example, in order to just manage the overcloud images:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml -t inventory -t overcloud-images
```

### I want to add a new instance to my current lab
Just add the requested information in the yaml you used for the initial deploy,
then:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml -t domains -t baremetal -t vbmc
```

Domain tag will create the instance disk image and add it to libvirt. The vbmc
tag will add the new to vbmc, and enable it. The baremetal tag will take care of
the different configuration on the undercloud.

One note though: you might want to delete the already-existing node(s) from the
baremetal.json on the undercloud, in order to avoid useless error output from
the import task.

Also, this ansible will NOT run the import task once more, it doesn't ensure
all nodes are present. You will need to run, on your own:
```Bash
source ~/stackrc
openstack overcloud node import --provide baremetal.json
```

### Extend the lab
You can pass variables and environment files using the ```-e``` option, like:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml --skip-tags overcloud-images --tags lab -e @environments/3ctl-1compute.yaml
```
This will start a lab with just 3 controllers and 1 compute.

### Validations
You can run tempest validations against standalone and undercloud deploy. In order to run
just the validations and avoid having to wait to much time, you can run the following command:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml -t inventory -t validations
```

### Metrics
The project now allows to gather metrics about the undercloud instance. In order
to activate requested things on the builder (namely, run a couple of containers),
you need to add the following tag the first time you re-deploy the lab:
```Bash
ansible-playbook builder.yaml --tags metrics,lab
```

Please note this will install podman on the builder, and start two containers,
one for graphite, the other for grafana.

Graphite has two persistent data directories located in ```/var/lib/containers/storage/mounts/graphite```.

In case you want to clean up data, you can go in ```/var/lib/containers/storage/mounts/graphite/storage/whisper```
and remove the data related to your undercloud.

The cleanup is NOT done when you drop the lab and rebuild it, in order to keep
tracks of older deploy for comparaison purpose.

#### Variables
*vms*
  Hash with the following entries:
  - name (string)
  - cpu (int)
  - memory (int, MB)
  - interfaces (list)
    - network (network name, default 'ctlplane')
  - autostart (bool)
  - swap (string, for example 10G)
  - iotune (list)
    - tune (string, iotune option)
      value (string, iotune option value)
```YAML
vms:
  - name: undercloud
    cpu: 16
    memory: 20000
    disksize: 100
    interfaces:
      - network: default
      - net2
    autostart: yes
  - name: controller-0
    cpu: 8
    memory: 20000
    disksize: 100
    interfaces:
      - net1
      - net2
    autostart: no
```

*centos_mirror*
  Create a CentOS repository mirror (default to no)

*mirror_base_directory*
  Location of the mirrors on your filesystem (default to /srv/mirror)

*manage_mirror_device*
  Toggle management of the dedicated device for the mirror content (default to yes)

*centos_mirror_device*
  Block device name for mirror content.

  Please note it will create a partition and format it as XFS.

*virt_user*
  Username on the builder (will be created)

*basedir*
  Base directory for all the VM images

*undercloud_password*
  Root password on the undercloud VM (debug purpose)

*undercloud_config*
  List of hashes representing ini configuration for undercloud.conf file
```YAML
---
undercloud_config:
  - section: DEFAULT
    option: container_cli
    value: podman
```

*tripleo_repo_version*
  Tripleo-repos package name/version. The default version is `master`. This can be changed this to any OpenStack version, like `stein` or `train`.

*overcloud_images*
  Hash with the following entries:
  - file (string)
  - content (string)

*containerized_undercloud*
  Boolean, default "yes"

*use_heat*
  Whether to add `--use-heat` to undercloud install command (Boolean).
  Defaults "no"

*ci_tools*
  Install CI tools (Boolean)

*deploy_undercloud*
  Boolean

*deploy_overcloud*
  Boolean

*proxy_host*
  Allows to use a proxy on the lab - put IP:PORT as value

*patches*
  List of hashes with the following entries:
  - name (string) - package name
  - refs (string) - patch reference
```YAML
patches:
  - name: 'tripleo-heat-templates'
    refs: '33/600533/8'
```

*synchronize*
  List of hashes with the following entries:
  - name
  - base
  - container (optional, default False)
  - host (optional, default True)
  - dest (defaults to /home/stack/tripleo/)
  Synchronize with rsync from your ansible controller to remote. The "host"
  and "container" params are used for the build destiation - either container
  or host, or both. It results in a different target directory.
```YAML
synchronize:
  - name: tripleo-heat-templates
    base: /home/user/work
    dest: /home/stack/tripleo/
```

*synchronize_default_dest*
  String. Used if you don't set "dest" in the synchronize hash.
  Default /home/stack/tripleo/

*custom_rpms*
  List of custom remote RPMS to install on your undercloud node

*additional_envs*
  List of additional env you want to pass to either standalone or overcloud deploy

*standalone*
  Deploy "standalone" tripleo (Bool, default no)

*standalone_ceph*
  Deploy ceph in standalone tripleo (Bool, default no)

*standalone_container_cli*
  Deploy standalone using said container CLI (String, default docker)

*deploy_standalone*
  Run the deploy script (Bool, default yes)

*semodules*
  Build modules based on .te files you can provide. List of dicts.
```YAML
semodules:
  - name: foobar
    src: /full/path/foobar.te
```

*overcloud_image_update*
  Whether you want to get a `yum update` on the overcloud-full prior its
  upload into Glance. (Bool, default to yes)

*undercloud_low_memory*
  Creates a hieradata file to configure 1 worker per OpenStack
  service. This hieradata file is consummed by the Undercloud.
  (Bool, default no)

*disable_selinux*
  Allows to disable selinux on the undercloud, setting it to "permissive" while
  still logging what would have been blocked.
  (Bool, default no)

*enable_metrics*
  Allows to set up metrics gathering, using collectd, graphite and grafana.
  (Bool, default no)

*custom_repositories*
  List of custom repositories dicts
```YAML
custom_repositories:
  - name: foo
    uri: https://foo.bar
    gpg: (bool, optional)
    priority: (int, optional)
```

*tripleoclient_pkgname*
  Allows to set a custom name for the python-tripleoclient.
  (Str, default python-tripleoclient)

*unmanage_iface*
  Point to the interface we want to unmanage from NetworkManager

*run_validations*
  Activate tempest runs (bool, default yes)

*modify_container*
  List projects/container to modify on the fly during a standalone deploy.
```YAML
modify_container:
  gerrit-project-name:
    ref: change reference
    container: container-name
```
For instance:
```YAML
modify_container:
  neutron:
    ref: refs/changes/60/661760/7
    container: neutron-server
```

*num_osds*
  The number of OSD disks created per ceph node (int, default 1)
